---
title: "Tumbled has now been tested on Nintendo Switch!"
date: 2021-12-31T11:53:37-05:00
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - big-news
  - update
---

# Preface

Tumbled has officially been tested and has been shown to work without issues under RetroArch for the Nintendo Switch! Here's how to play.

> ⚠ This will void your Nintendo Switch console's warranty! RetroArch is not an official application, and must be installed after hacking the console!

1.    Make sure you have an "unpatched" Nintendo Switch console. You can check if you have an unpatched console at [this site](https://ismyswitchpatched.com).
2.    If your console is "Patched", you cannot play Tumbled. 😦
3.    If your console is "Potentially patched", try to install custom firmware via the instructions below
4.    If your console is not patched, follow the instructions below to install custom firmware (Atmosphère)

> Note: If you already have a hacked console, skip this section and go to ["Install and Play"](#Install-and-Play)

> Note: If you're a filthy scuzzball and have ReiNX or SX OS, it's time to upgrade to Atmosphère. (Trust me on this one, okay?)

> Note: This *should* work with Kosmos, but hasn't been tested! (My console runs "stock" Atmosphère.)

# Installing Atmosphère:

Follow the instructions in [the guide by the NH Discord](https://nh-server.github.io/switch-guide/) to install Atmosphère on your device.

> ⚠ Please, please, please use an emuMMC setup with `mitm` or `90DNS`! sysNAND/sysMMC is volatile and will get your console banned from Nintendo's online services!

Once you have everything ready, launch into sysMMC and install YouTube from Nintendo eShop. Now copy the Nintendo folder from the root of your microSD card to `sdmc:/emuMMC/RAW1/Nintendo/`. **Don't delete the Nintendo folder in emuMMC before doing this!** This process will install YouTube on your emuMMC without any risk of a ban.

> Note for macOS users: There have been many reports of "corruption" when files are copied to and from macOS! To fix this, inject hekate and go to `Tools > Arch bit > Fix Archive Bit`.

Next, boot back into Atmosphère and open YouTube while holding the `R` button to launch `hbmenu`. Open the HB App Store, then download RetroArch. 

# Install and Play
In RetroArch, open the `Online Updater` and download the `mGBA` core. Now, download (or compile) the `tumbledemerald` ROM file (`tumbledemerald.gba`) and get it to the Switch (i.e. by using FTPD or just removing the microSD card and manuallu copying the file over. Personally, I store it in `sdmc:/retroarch/games/tumbledemerald.gba`. Now launch the game and play, you filthy animal!
